nmp registry, open-source packages, and code security using npm@6 (#286)
section-io/engineering-education: articles/npm-registry-opensource-code-security-with-npm6/index.md

On June 2019, MPM crossed a million-libraries mark. With over 1.3 million libraries currently available, NPM registry is now the largest single collection of open source libraries in the world with more than 12 million developers.

On April 23, 2018, NPM users downloaded five billion packages within the last 7 days of that date. On this day 4 years ago, that figure was 50 million, this means 10,000% growth. The average IP downloads were 2200 packages per month.
![](/engineering-education/npm-registry-opensource-code-security-with-npm6/weekly-downloads.jpg)

[*Image Source*](https://twitter.com/seldo/status/988477780441481217)

Up to now, NPM has recorded tremendous growth with over 20 billion average weekly downloads. As am writing this article, the NPM registry recorded 88,820,279,735 libraries downloads last month. NPM registry is now serving around 125 billion requests at a whopping [6 Petabytes per month](https://blog.npmjs.org/post/615388323067854848/so-long-and-thanks-for-all-the-packages).

> This statistical testaments, explain the resilience and commitment of NPM to keep the world's largest community safe by building a chain of fast reliable tools to help you see the safety of JavaScript code you write and share as well as the open-source code to ensure it is safe before you go live.

Reviewer: This paragraph was a bit difficult to get through - if you could rephrase.

We now have a clear image that most developers are greatly concerned about code security. Interestingly, 19% of the respondent have 10+ years of experience in using JavaScript. Moreover, out of this 81% were concerned about open-source code security.

![](/engineering-education/npm-registry-opensource-code-security-with-npm6/concerned-experien-based.png)

[*Image Source*](https://medium.com/npm-inc/security-in-the-js-community-4bac032e553b)

This concludes that, the more time you utilize JavaScript the more you become concerned about ensuring that the code you use is safe. In short, the attitude to security changes with experience.

## 2. Are you satisfied with the available methods to evaluate the safeness and the quality of open source code?

It is interesting to note that more than half of JavaScript developers are not convinced with the existing tools for analyzing the security and quality of open-source code, which is very alarming.

![](/engineering-education/npm-registry-opensource-code-security-with-npm6/oss-noncerned.png)

[*Image Source*](https://medium.com/npm-inc/security-in-the-js-community-4bac032e553b)

> What about we separate the response dependent on the concern of open source code or their own code (the code you write).

Reviewer: Please revisit this sentence:
"What about we separate the response dependent on the concern of open source code or their own code (the code you write)."

![](/engineering-education/npm-registry-opensource-code-security-with-npm6/least-most-experienced.png)

[*Image Source*](https://medium.com/npm-inc/security-in-the-js-community-4bac032e553b)

From these results experienced groups were:
-   More likely to use testing frameworks.
-   More likely to use linter.
-   More probably to do code review.
-   More likely to carry out external audits of the code.
-   More probably to participate in automated scans to find security vulnerabilities in the code they are using.

If all answers are combined, a measure of how many developers uses some form of security practices on codes depending on experience will be:
![](/engineering-education/npm-registry-opensource-code-security-with-npm6/level-of-experience.png)

[*Image Source*](https://medium.com/npm-inc/security-in-the-js-community-4bac032e553b)

### Conclusion
-   The best code security practices are common to experienced developers. These practices include code review, linting and testing.
-  Practices such as testing, linting, code surveys, and security examines are indicators  of a polished developer.

> -   Solid greater part of this developers are more likely concerned with the safety of the code they write as well as the open-source code they use.

Reviewer: Please revisit and rephrase this sentence: 
"Solid greater part of this developers are more likely concerned with the safety of the code they write as well as the open-source code they use."

---
layout: engineering-education
status: publish
published: true
url: /engineering-education/npm-registry-opensource-code-security-with-npm6/
title: Open-source packages & Code Security using npm
description: The article addresses how opening DevTools, setting breakpoints, and restarting app instances is helpful for debugging. Since Node.js apps can fail without error messages.
author: joseph-chege
date: 2020-09-10T00:00:00-10:00
topics: []
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
images:

  - url: /engineering-education/npm-registry-opensource-code-security-with-npm6/hero.jpg
    alt: Devtools example image Node.js debugger
---
Security is a huge concern for everyone. The safety of the code you use is important regardless of you being a beginner or expert in Node.js app development. It is even a professional habit that developers acquire as they grow with experience. Making sure open-source codes are secure is one of the fundamental mission of NPM, with approaches to security at scale to empower NPM users to develop secure code.
<!--more-->

> With NPM(short for Node Package Manager), you do not need to worry about the safety of your code. NPM provides vulnerability-scanning tools that are built-in your Node.js workflow. These tools are faster and they automatically review every install request you make, it checks the Node Security Platform vulnerably database, and warns you if you try to use unsafe codes. It even analyzes your dependencies trees to check specifically what has security issues and recommend a replacement or fix the issues automatically.

Reviewer: @kimkimani 
This sentence is a bit difficult to read - not sure what it was meant to say - please revisit and rephrase. 
"it checks the Node Security Platform vulnerably database"

In this article, we will have a look at NPM registry survey statistics, check other developers' responses to Node.js security practices and identify which tools you need to assess your open-source code safely.

### NPM registry download statistics

> On September 29th, 2019, NPM marked 10 years of its existence. NPM has been used to develop every kind of application i.e. Web apps, mobile applications, Servers, Internet of things (IoT)/robotic, desktop applications and native mobile applications. This has greatly contributed to the NPM registry popularity. The number of libraries available in the NPM registry influences most developers to choose JavaScript.

Reviewer: any sentences that have a date - please add a source 👍

![](/engineering-education/npm-registry-opensource-code-security-with-npm6/npm-influnce-statistics.png)

[*Image Source*](https://medium.com/npm-inc/this-year-in-javascript-2018-in-review-and-npms-predictions-for-2019-3a3d7e5298ef#:~:text=npm%20has%20over%2010%20million,packages%20of%20open%20source%20JavaScript.)

> In June 2019, MPM crossed a million-libraries mark. With over 1.3 million libraries currently available, NPM registry is now the largest single collection of open source libraries in the world with more than 12 million developers.

Reviewer: date needs a source (you can add as a link)

> On April 23, 2018, NPM users downloaded five billion packages within the last 7 days of that date. On this day 4 years ago, that figure was 50 million, this means 10,000% growth. The average IP downloads were 2200 packages per month.

Reviewer: source

![](/engineering-education/npm-registry-opensource-code-security-with-npm6/weekly-downloads.jpg)

[*Image Source*](https://twitter.com/seldo/status/988477780441481217)

Up to now, NPM has recorded tremendous growth with over 20 billion average weekly downloads. As am writing this article, the NPM registry recorded 88,820,279,735 libraries downloads last month. NPM registry is now serving around 125 billion requests at a whopping 6 Petabytes per month. [Ahmad Nassri](https://blog.npmjs.org/post/615388323067854848/so-long-and-thanks-for-all-the-packages).

> This statistical testaments, explain the resilience and commitment of NPM to keep the world's largest community safe by building a chain of fast reliable tools to help you perceive the safety of JavaScript code you write and share as well as the open-source code to ensure it is safe before you go live.

Reviewer: This paragraph is abit difficult to read through - please revisit and rephrase -

![](/engineering-education/npm-registry-opensource-code-security-with-npm6/npx.gif)

[*Image Source*](https://blog.npmjs.org/post/173240511455/the-new-npm-cli-a-year-in-review-or-what-you)

### Using [`npx`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/npx) has the following advantages
-   You can run project-local binaries with it. This means you don't need to install things like `grunt-cli`, `gulp`, `bower`, and `tsc globally`---you can install them as `devDependencies` and use `npx` to run the local versions without hassle (for example, `$ npm i -D standard && npx standard`).

For more information go to this [npm blog post](https://blog.npmjs.org/post/173240511455/the-new-npm-cli-a-year-in-review-or-what-you).

-   You can do a one-off, temporary installs of command-line utilities that are rarely ran, [such as generators](https://blog.npmjs.org/post/173240511455/the-new-npm-cli-a-year-in-review-or-what-you):

 `$ npx create-react-app`.

-   You can easily try different versions of these tools with a single install if you need to [compare them](https://blog.npmjs.org/post/173240511455/the-new-npm-cli-a-year-in-review-or-what-you): 

`$ npx standard@8 && npx standard@10`.

> -   You can even install the [shell auto-fallback](https://t.umblr.com/redirect?z=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.npmjs.com%2Fpackage%2Fnpx%23shell-auto-fallback&t=MTVkODRiYmJkOWQ0ZTQxMjYwZGU3M2U0OGFiMDAwZTQ3YjAzMjc5YyxSQlc3OFpFUg%3D%3D&b=t%3AnXsLs1P4AptPf1fBr_nFxw&p=https%3A%2F%2Fblog.npmjs.org%2Fpost%2F173240511455%2Fthe-new-npm-cli-a-year-in-review-or-what-you&m=1&ts=1598809717) to not even have to write `$ npx...` in many cases.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   You can even install the [shell auto-fallback](https://www.npmjs.com/package/npx#shell-auto-fallback) to not even have to write `$ npx...` in many cases.
```
